\documentclass[9pt,twocolumn,twoside,]{pnas-new}

% Use the lineno option to display guide line numbers if required.
% Note that the use of elements such as single-column equations
% may affect the guide line number alignment.


\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}

% tightlist command for lists without linebreak
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}


% Pandoc citation processing
%From Pandoc 3.1.8
% definitions for citeproc citations
\NewDocumentCommand\citeproctext{}{}
\NewDocumentCommand\citeproc{mm}{%
  \begingroup\def\citeproctext{#2}\cite{#1}\endgroup}
\makeatletter
 % allow citations to break across lines
 \let\@cite@ofmt\@firstofone
 % avoid brackets around text for \cite:
 \def\@biblabel#1{}
 \def\@cite#1#2{{#1\if@tempswa , #2\fi}}
\makeatother
\newlength{\cslhangindent}
\setlength{\cslhangindent}{1.5em}
\newlength{\csllabelwidth}
\setlength{\csllabelwidth}{3em}
\newenvironment{CSLReferences}[2] % #1 hanging-indent, #2 entry-spacing
 {\begin{list}{}{%
  \setlength{\itemindent}{0pt}
  \setlength{\leftmargin}{0pt}
  \setlength{\parsep}{0pt}
  % turn on hanging indent if param 1 is 1
  \ifodd #1
   \setlength{\leftmargin}{\cslhangindent}
   \setlength{\itemindent}{-1\cslhangindent}
  \fi
  % set entry spacing
  \setlength{\itemsep}{#2\baselineskip}}}
 {\end{list}}
\usepackage{calc}
\newcommand{\CSLBlock}[1]{#1\hfill\break}
\newcommand{\CSLLeftMargin}[1]{\parbox[t]{\csllabelwidth}{#1}}
\newcommand{\CSLRightInline}[1]{\parbox[t]{\linewidth - \csllabelwidth}{#1}\break}
\newcommand{\CSLIndent}[1]{\hspace{\cslhangindent}#1}


\templatetype{pnasresearcharticle}  % Choose template

\title{Rapport - Article scientifique}

\author[a,1,4]{Marika Roberge}
\author[a,2,4]{Bertrand Labrecque}
\author[a,3,4]{Juliette Boulet-Thomas}

  \affil[a]{Faculté des sciences, Département de biologie, 2500
Boulevard de l'Université, Sherbrooke, Québec, Zip}


% Please give the surname of the lead author for the running footer
\leadauthor{Roberge}

% Please add here a significance statement to explain the relevance of your work
\significancestatement{Authors must submit a 120-word maximum statement
about the significance of their research paper written at a level
understandable to an undergraduate educated scientist outside their
field of speciality. The primary goal of the Significance Statement is
to explain the relevance of the work in broad context to a broad
readership. The Significance Statement appears in the paper itself and
is required for all research papers.}


\authorcontributions{Please provide details of author contributions
here.}

\authordeclaration{Please declare any conflict of interest here.}

\equalauthors{\textsuperscript{4} M.R.(Author One), B.L. (Author Two)
and J.B-T. (Author Three) contributed equally to this work (remove if
not applicable).}

\correspondingauthor{\textsuperscript{1} To whom correspondence should
be addressed. E-mail:
\href{mailto:marikaroberge@email.com}{\nolinkurl{marikaroberge@email.com}}}

% Keywords are not mandatory, but authors are strongly encouraged to provide them. If provided, please include two to five keywords, separated by the pipe symbol, e.g:
 \keywords{  lepidopteres |  communautés |  variation
temporelle |  variation spatiale  } 

\begin{abstract}
Please provide an abstract of no more than 250 words in a single
paragraph. Abstracts should explain to the general reader the major
contributions of the article. References in the abstract must be cited
in full within the abstract itself and cited in the text.
\end{abstract}

\dates{This manuscript was compiled on \today}
\doi{\url{www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.XXXXXXXXXX}}

\begin{document}

% Optional adjustment to line up main text (after abstract) of first page with line numbers, when using both lineno and twocolumn options.
% You should only change this length when you've finalised the article contents.
\verticaladjustment{-2pt}



\maketitle
\thispagestyle{firststyle}
\ifthenelse{\boolean{shortarticle}}{\ifthenelse{\boolean{singlecolumn}}{\abscontentformatted}{\abscontent}}{}

% If your first paragraph (i.e. with the \dropcap) contains a list environment (quote, quotation, theorem, definition, enumerate, itemize...), the line after the list may have some extra indentation. If this is the case, add \parshape=0 to the end of the list environment.

\acknow{Please include your acknowledgments here, set in a single
paragraph. Please do not include any acknowledgments in the Supporting
Information, or anywhere else in the manuscript.}

\subsection{Nos questions de
recherche}\label{nos-questions-de-recherche}

\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Question principale}
:}{Question principale :}}\label{question-principale}

Quels sont les changements de la composition et l'abondance des espèces
de lépidoptères dans le temps et dans l'espace ?

\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Variation temporelle}
:}{Variation temporelle :}}\label{variation-temporelle}

Comment la composition des communautés de lépidoptères a-t-elle évolué
au fil des années dans un site donné ?

\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Variation spatiale}
:}{Variation spatiale :}}\label{variation-spatiale}

Comment la composition et l'abondance des communautés de lépidoptères
varient-elles selon les différentes localisations géographiques ?

À faire : 1. changer les noms de colonnes de la table de données brutes
pour que ca soit plus compréhensible 2. ajouter des étapes dans la
fonction nettoyage\_data : pour enlever TXX:XX:XX de dwc\_event\_date et
ajuster ca dans verification\_data 3. S'assurer que obs\_value réfère à
quelque chose en particulier (presence, abondance, et ajuster les
données de ca, ex. 11 111) 4. Dans la table secondaire date, voir à ce
que chaque ligne soit unique (ex. site de 1 à 10 (donc de 10 lignes de
combinaison de lat et lon unique) et dans table primaire à site\_id on
retrouverait chaque ligne avec 1 à 10) 5. Dans la table primaire on
aurait les colonnes : nom\_scientifique (observed\_scientific\_name),
date (dwc\_event\_date), abondance (obs\_value en filtrant seulement
pour abundance dans obs\_variable) et site\_id et ? 6. Changer le nom de
certains targets (ex. data\_final et ULTIME\_database)

Updates: 2. réglé dans la fonction type\_colone, rete en characters 3.
problème de 11111 réglé

À faire cette semaine (jusqu'à mardi soir 8 avril) : -Corriger l'étape 2
de `'À faire'' -Revoir le 11 111, qu'est ce qu'on fait avec et qu'est-ce
qu'on fait avec l'abondance dans nos analyses? -Clairer le site\_id
(faire le df pour le site\_id) -Injecter les données -S'assurer que SQL
et targets fonctionnent (et que le MarkDown aussi) -Ajouter une ligne de
retrait de base de données lepido dans le script de SQL -Identifier
clairement nos questions de recherches -Penser à ce qu'on veut présenter
comme figures -Commencer à écrire le texte dans le Rapport -Il faudrait
vraiment créer des sous-dossiers dans notre dossier de projet
ProjetBIO\_500 et mieux structurer tout ca, ca va aider à faire la
dépendance du Rapport.Rmd dans le pipeline des targets! Pour ca, on
devrait se baser sur le code par après que le prof nous a fourni pour
compiler le RMarkDown dans targets.

This PNAS journal template is provided to help you write your work in
the correct journal format. Instructions for use are provided below.

Note: please start your introduction without including the word
``Introduction'' as a section heading (except for math articles in the
Physical Sciences section); this heading is implied in the first
paragraphs.

\section*{Guide to using this
template}\label{guide-to-using-this-template}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{Guide to using this template}

Please note that whilst this template provides a preview of the typeset
manuscript for submission, to help in this preparation, it will not
necessarily be the final publication layout. For more detailed
information please see the
\href{http://www.pnas.org/site/authors/format.xhtml}{PNAS Information
for Authors}.

\subsection*{Author Affiliations}\label{author-affiliations}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Author Affiliations}

Include department, institution, and complete address, with the
ZIP/postal code, for each author. Use lower case letters to match
authors with institutions, as shown in the example. Authors with an
ORCID ID may supply this information at submission.

\subsection*{Submitting Manuscripts}\label{submitting-manuscripts}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Submitting Manuscripts}

All authors must submit their articles at
\href{http://www.pnascentral.org/cgi-bin/main.plex}{PNAScentral}. If you
are using Overleaf to write your article, you can use the ``Submit to
PNAS'' option in the top bar of the editor window.

\subsection*{Format}\label{format}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Format}

Many authors find it useful to organize their manuscripts with the
following order of sections; Title, Author Affiliation, Keywords,
Abstract, Significance Statement, Results, Discussion, Materials and
methods, Acknowledgments, and References. Other orders and headings are
permitted.

\subsection*{Manuscript Length}\label{manuscript-length}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Manuscript Length}

PNAS generally uses a two-column format averaging 67 characters,
including spaces, per line. The maximum length of a Direct Submission
research article is six pages and a PNAS PLUS research article is ten
pages including all text, spaces, and the number of characters displaced
by figures, tables, and equations. When submitting tables, figures,
and/or equations in addition to text, keep the text for your manuscript
under 39,000 characters (including spaces) for Direct Submissions and
72,000 characters (including spaces) for PNAS PLUS.

\subsection*{References}\label{references}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{References}

References should be cited in numerical order as they appear in text;
this will be done automatically via bibtex, e.g. (1) and (2, 3). All
references, including for the SI, should be included in the main
manuscript file. References appearing in both sections should not be
duplicated. SI references included in tables should be included with the
main reference section.

\subsection*{Data Archival}\label{data-archival}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Data Archival}

PNAS must be able to archive the data essential to a published article.
Where such archiving is not possible, deposition of data in public
databases, such as GenBank, ArrayExpress, Protein Data Bank, Unidata,
and others outlined in the Information for Authors, is acceptable.

\subsection*{Language-Editing Services}\label{language-editing-services}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Language-Editing Services}

Prior to submission, authors who believe their manuscripts would benefit
from professional editing are encouraged to use a language-editing
service (see list at www.pnas.org/site/authors/language-editing.xhtml).
PNAS does not take responsibility for or endorse these services, and
their use has no bearing on acceptance of a manuscript for publication.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics{frog.png}
\caption{Placeholder image of a frog with a long example caption to show
justification setting.{}}
\end{figure}

\subsection*{Digital Figures}\label{sec:figures}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Digital Figures}

Only TIFF, EPS, and high-resolution PDF for Mac or PC are allowed for
figures that will appear in the main text, and images must be final
size. Authors may submit U3D or PRC files for 3D images; these must be
accompanied by 2D representations in TIFF, EPS, or high-resolution PDF
format. Color images must be in RGB (red, green, blue) mode. Include the
font files for any text.

Figures and Tables should be labelled and referenced in the standard way
using the \texttt{\textbackslash{}label\{\}} and
\texttt{\textbackslash{}ref\{\}} commands.

Figure \[fig:frog\] shows an example of how to insert a column-wide
figure. To insert a figure wider than one column, please use the
\texttt{\textbackslash{}begin\{figure*\}...\textbackslash{}end\{figure*\}}
environment. Figures wider than one column should be sized to 11.4 cm or
17.8 cm wide.

\subsection*{Single column equations}\label{single-column-equations}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Single column equations}

Authors may use 1- or 2-column equations in their article, according to
their preference.

To allow an equation to span both columns, options are to use the
\texttt{\textbackslash{}begin\{figure*\}...\textbackslash{}end\{figure*\}}
environment mentioned above for figures, or to use the
\texttt{\textbackslash{}begin\{widetext\}...\textbackslash{}end\{widetext\}}
environment as shown in equation \[eqn:example\] below.

Please note that this option may run into problems with floats and
footnotes, as mentioned in the \href{http://texdoc.net/pkg/cuted}{cuted
package documentation}. In the case of problems with footnotes, it may
be possible to correct the situation using commands
\texttt{\textbackslash{}footnotemark} and
\texttt{\textbackslash{}footnotetext}.

\[\begin{aligned}
(x+y)^3&=(x+y)(x+y)^2\\
       &=(x+y)(x^2+2xy+y^2) \label{eqn:example} \\
       &=x^3+3x^2y+3xy^3+x^3. 
\end{aligned}\]

\subsection*{Supporting Information
(SI)}\label{supporting-information-si}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Supporting Information (SI)}

The main text of the paper must stand on its own without the SI. Refer
to SI in the manuscript at an appropriate point in the text. Number
supporting figures and tables starting with S1, S2, etc. Authors are
limited to no more than 10 SI files, not including movie files. Authors
who place detailed materials and methods in SI must provide sufficient
detail in the main text methods to enable a reader to follow the logic
of the procedures and results and also must reference the online
methods. If a paper is fundamentally a study of a new method or
technique, then the methods must be described completely in the main
text. Because PNAS edits SI and composes it into a single PDF, authors
must provide the following file formats only.

\subsubsection*{SI Text}\label{si-text}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsubsection}{SI Text}

Supply Word, RTF, or LaTeX files (LaTeX files must be accompanied by a
PDF with the same file name for visual reference).

\subsubsection*{SI Figures}\label{si-figures}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsubsection}{SI Figures}

Provide a brief legend for each supporting figure after the supporting
text. Provide figure images in TIFF, EPS, high-resolution PDF, JPEG, or
GIF format; figures may not be embedded in manuscript text. When saving
TIFF files, use only LZW compression; do not use JPEG compression. Do
not save figure numbers, legends, or author names as part of the image.
Composite figures must be pre-assembled.

\subsubsection*{3D Figures}\label{d-figures}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsubsection}{3D Figures}

Supply a composable U3D or PRC file so that it may be edited and
composed. Authors may submit a PDF file but please note it will be
published in raw format and will not be edited or composed.

\subsubsection*{SI Tables}\label{si-tables}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsubsection}{SI Tables}

Supply Word, RTF, or LaTeX files (LaTeX files must be accompanied by a
PDF with the same file name for visual reference); include only one
table per file. Do not use tabs or spaces to separate columns in Word
tables.

\subsubsection*{SI Datasets}\label{si-datasets}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsubsection}{SI Datasets}

Supply Excel (.xls), RTF, or PDF files. This file type will be published
in raw format and will not be edited or composed.

\subsubsection*{SI Movies}\label{si-movies}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsubsection}{SI Movies}

Supply Audio Video Interleave (avi), Quicktime (mov), Windows Media
(wmv), animated GIF (gif), or MPEG files and submit a brief legend for
each movie in a Word or RTF file. All movies should be submitted at the
desired reproduction size and length. Movies should be no more than 10
MB in size.

\subsubsection*{Still images}\label{still-images}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsubsection}{Still images}

Authors must provide a still image from each video file. Supply TIFF,
EPS, high-resolution PDF, JPEG, or GIF files.

\subsubsection*{Appendices}\label{appendices}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsubsection}{Appendices}

PNAS prefers that authors submit individual source files to ensure
readability. If this is not possible, supply a single PDF file that
contains all of the SI associated with the paper. This file type will be
published in raw format and will not be edited or composed.

\showmatmethods
\showacknow
\pnasbreak

\phantomsection\label{refs}
\begin{CSLReferences}{0}{1}
\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-belkin2002using}
\CSLLeftMargin{1. }%
\CSLRightInline{Belkin M, Niyogi P (2002) Using manifold stucture for
partially labeled classification. \emph{Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems}, pp 929--936.}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-berard1994embedding}
\CSLLeftMargin{2. }%
\CSLRightInline{Bérard P, Besson G, Gallot S (1994) Embedding riemannian
manifolds by their heat kernel. \emph{Geometric \& Functional Analysis
GAFA} 4(4):373--398.}

\bibitem[\citeproctext]{ref-coifman2005geometric}
\CSLLeftMargin{3. }%
\CSLRightInline{Coifman RR, et al. (2005) Geometric diffusions as a tool
for harmonic analysis and structure definition of data: Diffusion maps.
\emph{Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United
States of America} 102(21):7426--7431.}

\end{CSLReferences}



% Bibliography
% \bibliography{pnas-sample}

\end{document}
